[MUSIC PLAYING]
PAUL LEWIS: Hello, and welcome
to this Supercharged Q&A.
I'm Paul.
SURMA: And I'm Surma.
PAUL LEWIS: Now,
today, we're going
to answer another question.
And as usual, it seems
Surma has chosen one.
What have you chosen?
SURMA: I have chosen
a question once again.
And this week, it
is going to be.
"I'm, in general,
very interested
in gesture driven
animations that
use physics-based equations.
Would be great to
hear about that."
PAUL LEWIS: OK, cool.
Well, actually,
as a side note, I
was playing with this
[INAUDIBLE] preview,
and they've just recently added
this spring, a timing function.
Have you seen this?
SURMA: Ooh.
Yeah, I heard about it.
I haven't actually looked
at what it looks like.
PAUL LEWIS: Yeah, so
basically, what they do
is instead of saying,
timing-function ease-out,
you can say spring,
and then it's
like mass, the dampening
factor, the initial velocity,
and a bunch of other stuff.
SURMA: It sounds
really physics-based.
PAUL LEWIS: It is.
And the weird thing
is, at the moment,
you can actually put a duration
on it, and after that time,
it'll just snap to the final
location, which kind of felt
a bit strange.
SURMA: That does not
sound very physics-based.
PAUL LEWIS: No, it doesn't.
It sounds kind of
a weird hybrid.
But nonetheless, it's
an interesting proposal
to introduce physics-based stuff
to existing CSS animations.
But how that's going to
pan out, I do not know.
What are your thoughts
on the whole area?
SURMA: Well, something
that you actually
taught me, I guess, or told
me was when it looks right,
it is right.
PAUL LEWIS: Yes.
SURMA: Which is something
that we've been employing
in codes all the time.
For example, with the
swipeable cards that you wrote,
you just went with this
formula which said,
current position
minus end position,
or the other way around,
divided by 4, every frame,
will have a real nice
smooth out effect, which
is not physics-based at all.
It isn't even
framerate-independent.
But in 99% of the
time, it's going
to feel right to the user,
and that is the only thing
that actually counts.
PAUL LEWIS: I think, yeah,
because I got that from one
of my teachers at school.
When we were doing
some drawing work,
basically, he was like, if
it looks right, it is right.
And it's kind of stuck with me.
And yeah, I think there's
two parts to this, which
is, firstly, if somebody's
interacting with something
on-screen, it's got to feel like
it's sticking to their finger,
assuming that's the kind of
feel you're actually going for.
SURMA: Sure.
PAUL LEWIS: After that, you
can get away with quite a lot,
because it's not a real
thing that they're--
SURMA: Exactly.
PAUL LEWIS: --interacting
with, right?
I mean, this is the whole
idea behind material design
is this kind of-- these
layers that sort of respond
sort of like a real-world
thing, but also kind of magical
as well.
SURMA: It's a metaphor, and
it stops there, I think.
PAUL LEWIS: Right, and
even with skeomorphic stuff
of yesteryear, it was kind
of realistic, but also
kind of not as well.
And I think, as you say,
so long as it looks right,
or apparently from what I say,
as long as it looks right,
I think it is right.
And the thing about doing
something that's physics-based,
generally, is there's a
increased computational cost
of doing the physics
calculations.
SURMA: For the real gain.
PAUL LEWIS: For arguably
questionable gain.
I think--
SURMA: [INAUDIBLE] metaphrasing.
PAUL LEWIS: Yeah, in some
cases, it's going to be right.
It's going to be the right
thing to do, depending on the UI
that you're making.
But in other cases, I
think, if you can fake it
and you can get close to
it, absolutely do that,
and especially if it's going to
mean that you're spending less
time on the CPU and you're much
more likely to hit like a 60
frames a second animation.
SURMA: And I think it's
kind of unwieldy when
you go physics-based really
fast, because you have
to basically pretend
that a certain item has
weight so you can kind of figure
out how fast it's going to go.
So all these kind of things--
PAUL LEWIS: Yeah.
SURMA: --that get really
annoying, because you're like,
I have a div.
Let's pretend it
weighs five kilograms.
And then you get more
variants you can tune,
and it gets really
hard to juggle
all these things in your head.
And I think, most of the
time, especially when we're
talking about simple
UI, that it's not
worth the effort or the
computational time that
comes with it.
PAUL LEWIS: Exactly.
So there you have it.
I think if you can do it, great.
Don't stress out about it and
just give it your best shot.
And I think that
most of the time,
so long as you're doing
60 frames a second,
stick to finger, and everything
kind of plays out, generally,
quite nicely with
eases and so forth,
most of the time, that'll
actually cover you pretty well.
So thank you very
much for joining us.
Don't forget to subscribe, and
we will catch you next time.
SURMA: See you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]